The Humongous Christmas Tree Massacre
Based on reconstituted truth.
I never got into trouble in high school. My teachers considered me a good student, if a little eccentric. I was an advocate and actively campaigned ￼for student rights.￼ I was instrumental in getting the PTA – the parent teacher association - turned into the PTSA - the parent teacher student association - giving students a voice in the administration of the school￼. ￼I hung out with the artsy crowd: the artists, the musicians, the actors, and the outsiders. I ran for student council as treasurer in 1970 and won handily.

Izzy had never gotten into trouble, either. He was ramrod straight, a member of the young Democrats club, the science club and the math club. He was an “A” student because his father, an army captain, demanded it. His future was bright and, although only a junior, ￼he was already receiving interest from some of the best universities in the state. He was well-respected by students and teachers. He ran for Vice President of student council and also won.

Joe was another story. A handsome and therefore ￼popular guy, the students chose him as president. Honestly though, his screw was woefully loose and badly in need of a retread. A few days after he got elected, he was suspended for wearing a “Nixon Eats It” t-shirt to school. It had a drawing of Nixon chewing on a pile of hundred-dollar bills. In retrospect it seemed harmless enough; I doubt if anyone would even look twice at something like that now. I’ve worn more controversial t-shirts since then. But now even school shootings get shamefully and shamelessly brushed off. However, at that time it was a venial sin to criticize a president. Joe would also take frequent trips to his car out in the high school parking lot to consume two or three joints before home room. The principal, Mr. Briggs, watched him like a hawk, but Joe was always a few steps ahead of him.

In spite of his craziness, or perhaps because of it, Joe was dynamic. He didn't get up from a chair, he sprang from a chair. He race-walked everywhere. In the auditorium, his whispers could carry to the students in the last row. He was a born leader, but as with all leaders, it depends on where they lead you. Joe was about to lead us into one of the defining moments of our high school days.

It was 1970, about 4 weeks before Christmas. Joe, Izzy and I met in the student Council office, a closet-sized space with posters of Sigmund Freud and Bob Dylan slapped up on a washed-out yellow wall. I had looked at our accounts, and we were broke. The spring dance had eaten up all the money we had taken in from our senior class car wash as well as our football jersey and button sales. We didn’t even have enough money for a string of Christmas lights in the lobby.

Izzy suggested another car wash, but Joe vetoed the idea. We’d already had one to raise money for the spring dance. We had originally wanted girls in bikinis and guys in short shorts to wash the cars, but Mr. Briggs (Briggs the Prig we called him) shot down the idea. None of the students wanted to wash cars anyway. The three of us wound up doing all the work, but we did actually take in some money.

And then we blew it all on the spring dance. That didn’t turn out so well. Mr. Pete Ferber, the gym teacher, was a chaperone at the dance. We called him “Pistol Packing Pete” because he’d always reach into his pocket when he saw you in the hall and produce a finger gun, which he would then discharge in your face and say, “BLAM!” It was his take on a cheerful greeting. He was on the dance floor doing the mambo with Mrs. Platz, our recently divorced home economics teacher, when he had a heart attack. The festivities went downhill from there. I overheard someone taking odds on whether gym period would be cancelled the following week. It wasn’t. I heard “BLAM!” at least four times while I sat in home room on Monday.

So, back in the office, I suggested that we ask for donations of Christmas decorations from all of the students and teachers. Izzy seconded the idea, and Joe thought it was worth a try. By the following week we were the proud owners of 50 yards of terminally tangled Xmas lights, 2 slightly damaged plastic life-sized Santas with blinking noses that refused to blink, 10 balding wreaths, a moldy stuffed snowman, a plastic menorah, and a team of reindeer, one of which was a double amputee. I think it was Blitzen.

We did what we could decorating the lobby, but we still didn’t have a tree, nor the money to buy even a scrawny one. Izzy suggested a small, fake one to place on a table in the lobby, but, again, Joe vetoed the idea. The lobby of the Sonderling building of our high school was huge. It was two floors tall and just as wide. Joe wanted to make a statement, and Charlie Brown’s Christmas tree wasn’t going to cut it￼.

“I know where we can get a huge tree for free,” Joe said at our weekly meeting. It was now December 8th. Shopping season had begun, the cheerleaders were wearing red scarves with their green and white cheerleading outfits, and Johnny Mathis’ “Merry Christmas to You” was playing like muzak in the bathrooms. “Chestnuts roasting on an open fire” is not the kind of thing you want to hear in a boy’s bathroom. But there it was.

Izzy and I wanted to know where we could get the tree. Joe explained that thousands of huge evergreen trees were just waiting for us all along Southern State Parkway.

“No!” said Izzy. “It’s illegal to cut down those trees.”

“He’s right, Joe,” I said. “We could get into serious trouble. We could go to jail, or worse, our parents could find out.”

Joe brushed this off. “No one’s going to catch us. We’ll do it after midnight. The highway patrol doesn’t even bother to come around that late. And we’ll do it close to a residential street, like Merriam Road. We park the car on the street, hop the fence with a few saws, cut down a tree, load it on the top of my car, and make a clean getaway.”

Izzy shook his head. “No way. I don’t want any part of that. I’ve managed to get to my junior year without even one detention. I’m not going to blow it all for some fucked-up scheme you of all people dreamed up. My dad would have my head.”

“Suit yourself,” said Joe, shrugging. “You can explain to the PTSA why our Christmas tree this year was made of paper mache.”

There were some loons in the Parent-Teacher-Student Association. One guy — I don’t even know if he had a kid in our high school — always brought a ream of various self-published pamphlets with titles like, “Is Your Teenager a Communist?” and “Is there a Commie in Your House?” This Joe McCarthy wannabe passed them out at every meeting. Mr. Briggs made one of us council members go to every meeting to represent the students. My eye muscles would get sore from rolling them so much when this idiot went on about Russian plots and race wars. If the topic was about raising the price of school lunches, J. Edgar Goober would insist that since the lunch trays were red, whoever bought them must be a communist, and they had to be stopped.
Goober had gotten Joe suspended. The communist hunter lived near the school, and watched from his window at the students coming and going. He spotted Joe with his Nixon t-shirt and called Briggs at the school, demanding that Joe be expelled. Even Briggs thought that particular punishment was severe, and suspended Joe to “teach him a lesson.” Joe learned that lesson. From then on, he wore his Nixon Eats It t-shirt under a button-down sweater. When the timing and student configuration was appropriate, he would rip open his sweater like Superman on his way to a phone booth, revealing Tricky Dicky’s jowly face.
I got to thinking what Goober would go on about if our Christmas decorations were sub par. He’d more than likely say this was godless communism sneaking in through the back door. I didn’t need him poking around the student council, especially since I was secretly publishing a monthly underground newspaper, “The Muckraker.” It criticized the Nixon administration and advocated for student rights. I’d even published some articles written by members of the Students for a Democratic Society. The SDS was real fodder for nutcases like J. Edgar Goober. If anyone found out I wrote, edited, and printed this newspaper (with the help of the secretary in the front office, Dotty — we used the school’s mimeograph machine, heh heh), I might get suspended or worse.

“Now wait a minute,” I cleared my throat. “Joe might not have such a bad idea.”

Izzy said, “Are you kidding me, Peter? It’s a terrible idea. And so very…illegal. Do you want to take college courses from behind bars next year?”

“Look,” I said. “I go up and down Merriam Road nearly every day. I can see the parkway perfectly just where Joselson Street meets Merriam Road. The parkway is like 10 yards from the fence. There are dozens of trees right there.”

“You’re right,” said Joe. “Easy pickings. All it’ll take is for Izzy to grow a pair.”

“I have an idea,” I said. “Izzy, you could drive the getaway car!”

Izzy cringed. “The what?”

“An unfortunate choice of words. I mean you could stay on the residential side, in the car. After we get the tree and hop back over the fence, we’ll tie the tree on top of the car, jump in, and you can drive us away.”

Joe nodded. “Yeah. This way you wouldn’t be doing anything illegal. You’d just be driving us and a Christmas tree.”

“An illegal Christmas tree,” added Izzy.

“And how is anyone supposed to know that?” I said. “For all you know, you’re just doing a favor for a friend.”

“They’re gonna know! Where else would we be getting a humongous tree from?”

“Just play dumb,” said Joe. “You’re good at that.”

I said. “Look, Izzy. You won’t hop the fence. You won’t cut down the tree. They could give you a lie detector test and you’d come out clean.”
Joe said, “And that’s assuming we get caught. And we will not get caught. I promise.”

Izzy thought about it for a few minutes while I sat there daydreaming and Joe burned a hole through Izzy with his eyes.

“Okay. I’ll do it. But I will only drive the car. I’ll stay there while you get the tree. Nothing else.”

“Nothing else. Cross my heart and hope to die,” said Joe etching a crucifix on his chest. “It’s settled then. I’ll pick you guys up at midnight.”

So, on that Friday at midnight, three 17-year old boys, armed with 2 single handle saws and one with a double handle, snuck out of their houses and drove over to the corner of Joselson Street and Merriam Road in Joe’s beat-up Ford. We parked on the grass a foot from the fence.

Izzy was trembling. “I got a bad feeling about this, guys.”

Joe laughed. “Don’t be a drama queen. Just sit in the car and wait. Peter and I will do all the work. As usual.”

I said, “Turn off the lights, but keep the car running. We’ll be back in a few minutes. Okay, Izzy?”

“Yeah.” Izzy kept swiveling his head. “I’ll keep an eye out for the police. But I swear, I see a patrol car coming this way, I’m outta here. You can both walk home.”

“Fair enough,” I said.

Joe just muttered, “Pussy,” as he grabbed the saws from the trunk.

Joe and I hopped the fence. We stood on the grass that bordered the parkway off-ramp that led to Bayshore Road. The trees were magnificent. Some were 30 feet high, with thick trunks and plenty of branches. I envisioned one of those trees garlanded with tinsel and Christmas balls. I pictured a student walking into the Sonderling building and getting his mind blown.

“Peter. This one.” Joe had already picked one out. I walked over.

I said, “It’s fantastic, but the trunk is way too thick. I don’t know if we can cut this one down with saws. We should have brought some axes.”

“It’ll be fine. You start sawing on one side, I’ll do the other. We’ll be done in ten minutes. And keep an eye out for the highway patrol. You can see the parkway from your side, I can’t.”
So we got to work. The first few minutes were easy; the saws cut through the bark quickly and bit right into the wood. But then they began slowing down.

“We’re barely a quarter of the way through,” I said, the sweat rolling down my face even though it must have been 19 degrees. I took off my coat and scarf and wiped my forehead with my sleeve. “Something is catching the blades.”

Joe stopped. Rivulets of sweat streamed down his face. “It’s the sap. I didn’t count on that, damn it. The tree is young, lot’s of sap. You were right. We should go back and get some axes. My dad’s got one in the garage,”

“No! We leave now no telling what will happen. Your parents will wake up, or Izzy will get cold feet again. Once we leave here, I don’t think we’ll ever persuade him to come back.”

Joe shrugged, “So? We don’t need Izzy. What’s he doing anyway?” Joe gestured toward the Ford where Izzy was jumping in his seat every time he saw headlights. “Just sitting there in the car pissing himself.”

“We’re a team. All for one and one for all. Remember what we said at our first meeting? We all agree on something, or we don’t do it.

“Okay. Fine. We’ll just keep sawing. Back to it.”

We pushed, we pulled. At one point we decided to use the double handle saw to get more strength into it. But after about 25 minutes, we’d only managed to cut through one-third of the trunk.

“This is just not going to work,” I said. “The sap keeps gumming up the blade. If we had a hatchet we could make the gap wider to get a better purchase on the wood.”

Joe scratched his head. “What if I push on the tree to make the gap wider?”

“Worth a try,” I said.

So Joe pushed on the tree, and it did make the gap wider, but not enough. Joe shoved harder, but he couldn’t maintain the pressure long enough for me to move the blade more than half way.

I stopped. “This isn’t working. The gap only opens up for as long as you’re pushing. Once you let go, I can’t move the blade.”

Joe looked up the tree. “What if I climbed up? I could put more weight into it.”

“Okay.”

Joe climbed up about 10 feet and rocked the tree back and forth. That worked better, but it wasn’t enough. I was wheezing from the effort of yanking the saw back and forth. I had to keep stopping to wipe the sap off the blade. “We need two men on this.”

“Well, if I come down there to help you, who’s going to climb up the tree?”

We looked at each other, and then we both said, “Izzy!”

“Oh, boy,” I said. He’s not going to like this at all.”

“Don’t worry. I’ll kick his ass if he doesn’t help.”

We jumped back over the fence, and I immediately started feeling cold again. It must have been in the low teens and I’d taken off my coat and scarf. My shirt was soaked with sweat and my hair was damp. We approached the driver’s side window. Izzy was inside with the car running and the heat blasting. The windows were all fogged up. We couldn't see in, and Izzy couldn't see out. Joe knocked on the window, and Izzy screamed like a six-year-old girl inside the car.

Joe shook his head. “It’s just us, you imbecile.”

Izzy rolled down the window. “You done yet? Where’s the tree? Let’s go. I’m getting nervous here.”

“We need your help,” said Joe.

“Help with what?”

“Cutting down the tree,” I said.

Izzy raised an eyebrow. “You’re still cutting it down? It’s been nearly an hour.”

“We’ve run into some problems,” said Joe. “It’s a three-man job.”

“No no no no no!. I’m not going over that fence.”

“If you don’t, there’s no Christmas tree,” Joe said.

“Then there’s no Christmas tree. I don’t care.”

“You should care,” I said. “Joe and I are seniors. You’re a junior. You’ve got another year to go and I know you want to run for president. How’s that going to look on your political resumé?”

Joe raised his finger and mimed reading . “Vote for Izzy, the only president who’ll ruin Christmas for you. At the bottom of the poster, there’ll be a drawing of a dead elf.”

Izzy put his hands on the steering wheel. At ten and two, of course. Then he banged his forehead onto the space between them several times. He took a deep breath and let it out slowly.

“I told you guys I didn’t want to have anything to do with this.”

“Izzy,” I said. “If you help us it’ll only take 10 minutes. If you don’t, we’ll be here for another hour.”

“At the very least,” added Joe. “The way we’re going, we won’t be out of here till morning.”

“Fine.” Izzy got out of the car and followed us over the fence.

Izzy’s shoulders slumped, resigned. “Tell me what you want me to do,” he said.

Joe pointed up the tree. “Just climb up there about half way. Then rock back and forth. When the tree bends it’ll create a larger gap we can get the saws into and cut.”

“Okay.” He hugged himself, shivering. “Fuck me, it’s cold.”

I said, “Well the quicker you get up there, the quicker we can get back to the car, so upsy daisy.”

So Izzy scooted up the tree, and Joe and I grabbed the double-handle saw. He began to rock back-and-forth, and working together, Joe and I finally started getting the saw to bite into the wood. Soon we were about halfway through the trunk.

Izzy yelled down to us. “How’s it coming along? Hurry up. I’m fucking freezing up here.”

“Almost there,” said Joe. “Keep doing what you’re doing.”

Suddenly, several things happened at once. There was a deafening crack. The saw flew out of our hands. The tree began to fall toward the highway, just as a State Trooper vehicle left the exit ramp and pulled onto the grass. We stood there wide-eyed as the tree went down. We heard Izzy scream, “OHHH SHIIIIT!” as he and the tree landed square on the roof of the trooper’s car with a sickening thud.

We grabbed the saws and ￼ran like hell, hopped the fence, jumped in Joe’s car, and peeled out down the road.

On the weekend, I kept waiting for the tree police to show up at my door to haul me away to park desecration prison. Joe called me several times. My mother answered. I told her to tell him that I wasn’t home. All this was his fault. I tried calling Izzy to see if he was okay, but no one picked up. I kept pacing the hallway in our house, wringing my hands. I was so squirrelly that my father asked me what was going on. I wanted to tell him everything, about Joe’s crazy idea, the tree, the saws, the unnerving sound of Izzy slamming onto the roof of the trooper’s car. But I told him I’d just broken up with my girlfriend. He put his hand on my shoulder and gave me a piece of advice that in retrospect seems oddly cynical: “Never put a woman on a pedestal because she'll just piss on you."

I said, “Thank you, pop. I will keep that in mind."

“No thanks necessary. It’s what parenting is all about, Pete.”

On Monday I woke up in a cold sweat. What awaited me at school? Would it be swarming with police cars? Would there be a homicide detective taking statements on the untimely death of a student found mangled in the branches of an Eastern White Pine? I briefly considered telling my mother that I wasn’t feeling well, which wouldn’t have been a lie, and that I thought I’d stay home that day because barfing seemed inevitable at some point. But that would have been cowardly. Best to get myself to school and take whatever there was waiting for me on the chin.

I walked to the bus stop to wait for the bus. It was late. Had there been orders to banish me from school transportation? Was I now a pariah, forced to sit alone at a lunch table while the student body scowled at me from behind their cafeteria hamburgers? No. The bus came. I got on. My friends Rich and Ken called me over, so I sat with them as Rich went on about Bob Dylan’s album New Morning, which had just come out in October of that year. I stared at my feet and ruminated on the ghastly possibility of having to be somebody’s bitch in prison.

When we got to the school, I got off the bus and trudged my way to the front door. There was something going on. A crowd of students milled around in the lobby. I could hear them from the street. Oh, God. This is it, I thought. They are waiting for me. It is a lynching. They must have nooses. They are going to hang me from the highest tree on Southern State Parkway as ironic retribution for my crime.

But when I walked through the door, no one looked at me. They were all looking up, up at something towering above the second floor. I elbowed my way through the crowd to get a better look.

There it stood, twenty feet tall. A Christmas tree — no — the Christmas tree. The very one we had cut down. Festooned with Christmas balls and tinsel and bulbs, it glittered and blinked and filled the lobby with colored light. The noise from the crowd was not growls of indignation but sighs of joy.

“But how…?” I said to myself, mesmerized.

Joe stood by the Christmas tree, putting a few touches on the team of reindeer we had gotten in our decoration drive. Blitzen was no longer a double amputee, his missing legs replaced with paper mache limbs. One of the art students, Debbie, was carefully applying black paint to one of Blitzen’s hooves.

Joe caught my eye and called me over.

“Your mouth is hanging open, Peter.”

“But how…what…when…?” I gestured to the tree, the lights the reindeer, the Santas whose noses pulsated in a harmonious synchronicity.”

Joe opened his arms wide. “Where in hell have you been? I’ve been trying to call you all weekend.”

I sputtered, “I was. I mean…how?”

“I went back at 4 o’clock that morning. The troopers were gone and the tree was just lying there. I wrestled it over the fence — myself I might add, lashed it to the car, and drove it to the school.”

“How’d you get in? The building’s all locked up at night.”

“I know a guy.”

“And Izzy?”

Joe shook his head. “I don’t know. I tried calling him all weekend, too, but no one answered.

“Is he at school today?”

“I haven’t seen him, but I’m sure he’s okay.”

“Okay?” I bristled. “You think he’s ‘okay’? Joe, he plummeted ten feet onto a reinforced highway patrol car.”

Joe shrugged. “The tree probably broke his fall. There was a broken branch I had to repair.” He turned. “Look at this tree! We — I mean me and the art department — spent all weekend working on this. Isn’t it incredible? And the students will be talking about this for years to come.”

“But Izzy, Joe! Izzy. We need to find out if he’s okay. If he’s not in school, he may be in the hospital.”

“Jesus. Another drama queen. I’m sure he’s huffing and puffing and pedaling his bicycle to school as we speak.”

The door opened and the students parted. Mr. Briggs walked into the lobby with his grey suit and matching briefcase. He spotted the tree immediately. He scanned it from the bottom of the trunk to the angel at the top. Then he looked at me and Joe. He waved the back of his hand in front of his face.

“I just don’t want to know,” he said, and disappeared into his office.

Izzy didn’t show up for school that day or any other day before Christmas. The holidays came and went. Izzy wasn’t part of my usual circle of friends, so I didn’t hear from him or Joe. When school resumed on January 4, 1971, I went straight to the Student Council room. Joe sat behind the desk in his standard plaid shirt and jeans, feet on the desk, reading a book.

“Have you heard anything from Izzy?” I asked.

“No. Nothing. I called last night. His father answered. He just said he ‘wasn’t available.’”

“Not available? That’s it? Did you ask if he was okay?”

“He didn’t give me the chance. He hung up on me.”

Someone knocked on the door. “Guys? Are you in there?” I opened the door. It was the secretary, Dotty. She wore a pink muumuu with a necklace of orange puka beads and pink sandals. I figured she wanted to tell me when it was safe to get the next issue of The Muckraker underground newspaper printed on the office mimeograph machine. I’d worked on it all through the holidays. I figured we could get the new issue out that month. But the look on her face told me that was not why she was there.

“The principal wants to see you.” She ran her index finger across her throat, her tongue lolling out of her mouth. She looked at Joe. “Both of you.”

I said. “Briggs knows. We’re fucked.”

We followed Dotty as she chugged her way through the lobby, entered the office, and turned right. She stopped and waved us foreword to Briggs’ office like an usher at a public execution. His door was open, so we walked in. Mr. Simon Briggs was behind his desk. Later in my life I would describe him as a dour Pee Wee Herman: gray suit, bow tie, close cropped hair, baby face. Very angry baby face.

“Sit down,” he grunted. We sat.

“What’s this about?” asked Joe. “The mess in the lobby? We’re on it. Peter’s organized a cleaning detail for tonight.”

I’d done no such thing.

“This is not about the cleanup,” said Briggs. He laid his hands flat on the table. “I’ve just gotten off the phone with Izzy’s father.”

“Izzy?” I leaned forward in my chair. “Is he okay?”

“Hmmm. You seem concerned, Peter,” Briggs said, raising an eyebrow￼￼. “You know something about this?”

Joe jumped in. “About what?”

Briggs looked at Joe.

Joe held up his hands. “Don't look at me. I'm clueless”

I cleared my throat. "So, um, what happened?"

Briggs interlaced his fingers, steepled his index fingers and placed them under his chin. "Izzy was arrested last month."

Joe feigned horror. It was comically over the top. "Arrested? My God, no! Izzy? Izzy the goody two-shoes?"

I added to the charade. "For what?"

"It seems that he and two other unnamed little criminals cut down a pine tree on county-protected land near the parkway."

Joe shook his head. "Oh, Izzy. What a misguided soul." He cocked his head and stared off into the distance. "Why would he do such a thing?"

"They think he wanted to get hold of a Christmas tree. Funny thing is, that tree is nowhere to be found. It was gone when the landscape crew showed up the next day to retrieve it. And it wasn't Izzy himself who took it away; his parents shut him up in his room as punishment. He's lucky they didn't let him rot in jail. They were livid. Now the highway patrol is looking for the two other teenagers who they saw with him and ran away when the patrol showed up."

I said, "So Izzy didn't give them up?"

Briggs shook his head. "No. They told him they would let him off￼ if he gave them the names of the two other two kids. He refused, and now he's got that incident on his police record. That means his hopes of getting into a good university are crushed."

"This is a tragedy," said Joe, remorse finally sneaking into voice.

I wanted to ask Briggs if Izzy was injured, but I didn't know how to say it without implicating myself. Finally, I asked Briggs, "So other than breaking the law, he's okay?"

"He broke his arm. Compound fracture. He’ll be in a cast for months.”

I asked, “How?” But, of course, I already knew.￼ ￼

"You know. And a lot more than you are saying."

"Honestly," Joe said. "We know nothing."

"He was up in the tree. The two idiots were on the ground trying to cut it down. The tree fell with Izzy in it. He landed on the patrol car. The other two cowards took off.” He raised both hands over his in exasperation. “Why he was up in that tree is a mystery to me.”

"Oh, God!” I said as a wave of guilt washed over me. "Listen, Mr, Briggs. It was Joe and I...OUCH!" I was just about to spill the beans, tell Briggs everything. How it was Joe's idea. How I stupidly went along with it. How we coerced and threatened Izzy to come along. How we forced him to help us. Then, unseen by Briggs, Joe kicked me hard in the shins.

"He wants to say that we are truly upset by this news, Mr. Briggs, and we'll do anything we can to help find the rascals who accompanied Izzy on this shameful endeavor."

"Come on," said Briggs leaning back in his chair. "Do you think I'm a moron? I know perfectly well who did this. I know whose idea it was because it certainly wasn't Izzy's, and I know where that humongous Christmas tree out there came from."

We were all silent for a moment. I looked at Joe, Joe looked at me, we both looked at Mr. Briggs. Mr. Briggs sat there, arms folded.

Joe said, “Well, don't keep us in suspense! Who did this?”

He pointed at us in turn. “You and him. I have no proof, but this mess has Joe written all over it. The audacity, the disregard for the rules, hell, disregard for the law. You’re a menace, kid, and you’ve taken Izzy down with you.”

I said nothing.

Joe said, “I don’t know what you’re talking about.”

Briggs shooed us out. “Leave. Both of you. The only reason you haven’t been expelled right now is because I don’t have any solid proof, but I know what you did.￼”

We got up. I turned to Briggs. “So, when is Izzy coming back? Is he suspended, expelled? What’s the deal?”

“He’s gone.” said Briggs.

“Gone?” I asked. “What do you mean ‘gone’?”

He looked at me with disgust. “Just what I said. Gone. His father removed him from school and enrolled him in a military academy.”

“A bit of an over-reaction, don’t you think?” said Joe.

“Not for me to judge. Not now, at least. Get out of here. And think about what you’ve done to your friend.”

We left the office and stood in the lobby. Tinsel and Christmas balls littered the floor. Blitzen’s legs had fallen off again. He lay on the floor like roadkill. The Santas’ noses were dark red and devoid of blinking lights. There’s nothing sadder than Christmas just after Christmas.

The tree looked wistful, pining for the pine forest. It’s needles had scattered everywhere, leaving the branches denuded. But even without its needles, it was tall, magnificent, noble, with only one flaw. About halfway up, behind a plastic gingerbread man, there was one broken branch, just one mutilated limb.

I whispered to myself. “I’m sorry, Izzy.”