Uncle Prod’s Masterpiece Dinner Theater


[Intro music (classical)]

Prod: Put down your knives and forks and stop masticating your cutlets, because it's time for Uncle Prod's Masterpiece Dinner Theater. 

[Applause]

Prod: And we have a special treat for you today. I've invited an escaped lunatic to help us out with the reading. Straight from the Jesuit Institution for People Who Give People a Bad Case of Gooseflesh, please give a warm Uncle Prod welcome to Argyle Nelson.

[Applause]

Argyle: I frequently need to be restrained.

Prod: I frequently WANT to be restrained, especially by a female postal worker with three inch stiletto heels and a fishnet mail bag. 

(insert Prod lust noises)

But I digress…Today we will be doing an interpretation of that enduring classic, Romeo and Juliet, written by the immortal bard, William F. Buckley, and translated into English by Mescalito, a playful elf from the Gutenberg Forest.

Mescalito: Thank you Uncle Prod! He-he-he. I’m an elf! I scamper in the forest! He-he *cough*

Argyle:  Did you know that I was punished for having sex with a Michael Jackson lunchbox?

Prod: No I didn’t, but I’d like to hear all about it later, when my prostate shrinks. Now, boys and girls, I will play the part of Romeo, the romantic lover, and Argyle will do the part of Juliet, the nubile maiden.

Argyle: Father Creamjeans always makes me play the nubile maiden, Uncle Prod.

Prod: Now you take this script, Argyle, and climb that ladder to our substandard makeshift all-purpose balcony.

Argyle: Can I take a change of underwear?

Prod: Of course. Here, take mine.

Argyle: Thank you!

[Here I need the sounds of crashing and Argyle cursing and screaming in pain.]

Argyle: Okay, I’m ready Uncle Prod.

Prod: Okay. Now you just read along in the script and say only the words that come after Juliet’s name. You got that?

Argyle: Yes, Uncle Prod. Just one question, please.

Prod: Go ahead.

Argyle: Is your underwear edible? Because it smells like freshly baked scones.

Prod: No. But I’m glad you asked me that, because…

[Happy commercial background music]

That’s just the aroma from my scrotum correction cream, available for $2.98 from the Republican Party Outlet Store. Got your scrotum in a bunch? Don’t bother to eat lunch! Get Republican Party Scrotum Correction Cream in five delicious flavors: Chocolate Roca, Vanilla Cream, Hot Cinnamon Scone, Banana Wow and George Bush.

Argyle: What’s the George Bush flavor taste like Uncle Prod?

Prod: Like grandma forgot to flush.

Argyle: Sounds delicious Uncle Prod!

Prod: Sure does, Argyle! Get scrotum correction cream and smell like one of those hairy nut sacks in congress. Do it today!

[End of Happy Background commercial music]

Argyle: Okay. I’m ready, Uncle Prod!

Prod: And now, boys and girls, Uncle Prod’s production of Romeo and Juliet.

[Renaissance music]

Argyle: Romeo, Romeo where the devil are you, you’re always late.

Prod: Juliet, oh Juliet! Is that you? The setting sun doth shine in my eyes and you look like a badly made balloon animal.

Argyle: Yoo-hoo! Romeo? I’m right here! Step into the light and let me take a gander at your gargantuan codpiece.

Prod: Egad, Juliet! Make not fun of my freakish member, for it is gnarly and apt to escape and wreak havoc upon your prostrate unclothed form at the earliest convenience.

Argyle: Thou hast a dorky way about you, but I’d strap thee on like a Clydesdale if it weren’t for my family. Alas, my father hates thy father and mother because of that wife-swapping fiasco a fortnight ago, therefore and forsooth, and for other reasons, it’s a no go on doing the beast with two backs, whatever that means.

Prod: But Juliet, sweet succulent Juliet! Forsake thy father! What can he give thee that I can’t give thee?

Argyle: Apart from venereal disease? Nothing, my love. (weeping) Oh, Romeo, Romeo, we are undone!

Prod: Do not tremble with discord, my fair love, nor dampen your frilly under things with vile juices! Climb down here and dance the joyful dance of the swollen mutton with me. You’ll feel SO MUCH better. And I’ll have webcam footage to post on the Internet.

Argyle: No! No! A thousand times no! 

Prod: What about phone sex? Zounds, fair Juliet! I haveth a case of multi-colored gonad discomfort. Oh, relief, thy name is Juliet!

(Just then Juliet’s VERY OLD NURSE calls out for her from offstage)

Nurse: Juliet! Juliet! Where are you? It’s time for your “Protect your Maidenhead” lesson.

Argyle: Anon, nurse.

Nurse: What?

Argyle: I said ANON, Nurse.

Nurse: WHAT?

Argyle: Art thou deaf? I said I’d be right there, you wizened shopping bag!

Nurse: Okay, dearie. Don’t forget to bring your vulva. Last time you left it in the sewing basket and the dog buried it in the yard.

Argyle: I’ll remember nurse… Romeo? Romeo? Wherefore art thou Romeo? Oh, Lud! The oversexed ruffian has run off to relieve himself with a tawdry trollop.

Prod: Here I am, my one, my only love!

Argyle: Romeo! Thou hast frightened me! How did thee get up here on the balcony? It’s the height of twelve feet from the garden.

Prod: Forsooth, Juliet. I vaulted.

Argyle: Thou hast vaulted with a pole? Where is thy pole? I do not see thy pole.

(the sound of a zipper opening)

Oh! THERE is thy pole.

[Fanfare Music]

Prod: And as the sun sets on our star-crossed lovers, the curtain gently drops, and the house lights come up. The End.

[Applause]

Prod: Thank you for joining us this week on Uncle Prod’s Masterpiece Dinner Theater. Join us next week as we present Peter Weiss’s classic play, “The Persecution and Assassination of Jean Paul Marat as Performed by the Inmates of the Asylum of Charenton Under the Direction of the Marquis de Sade,” with Condoleezza Rice in the role of the beautiful narcoleptic Charlotte Corday and Colin Powell as the pustulent Jean Paul Marat. I will play the part of the Marquis de Sade. It’s a role I was born for, because I get to use electricity and a strap-on food processor! (Prod laughs) 

A special thanks to Argyle Nelson for helping us out tonight. Thank you Argyle.

Argyle: If I were invisible, not even Mussolini could see me.

Prod: Thank you and good night boys and girls. Remember to say your prayers!









